Simon the Sorcerer
A Walkthrough by The Lost Gamer
(ilovecartoonssomuch@yahoo.com)
Copyright 2012


For a list of all my various guides, check
http://the_lost_gamer.tripod.com/guides.html


Table of Contents:
001.  General information
002.  Locations
003.  Items
004.  Walkthrough
005.  Credits



001-General Information
---------------------------------------------------------

This is a walkthrough for the game called Simon the 
Sorcerer. I am playing the game on the iPad, but the game 
was originally made for computers. If you want to email me 
about the guide, you can do so at my email address, 
ilovecartoonssomuch@yahoo.com.

Thanks to jiri, who made the ASCII-art of a wizard, 
featured at the top of this guide.

002-Locations
---------------------------------------------------------

The hardest part of the game is navigating the maze that is 
the game's overworld. When you visit certain locations, 
they are saved on the map in Simon's inventory. Use the map 
to warp to those locations.

I'll start by explaining all eight locations in the 
village.

Village
-------

1. The Wizard House is where you start. You can go inside 
the house, outside the house, and behind the house, to a 
compost pile. From here, you can go east from the Wizard 
House to reach the Blacksmith.

2. The Blacksmith. From here, you can go west from it to 
the Wizard House, east to reach the Dodgy Geezer, and north 
to the Pub.

3. The Dodgy Geezer. From here, you can go north to the 
Blacksmith, west to the Druid's house and east to the 
Shoppe.

4. Druid's House. From here, you can go inside the house, 
west to the Chocolate House or east to the Dodgy Geezer.

5. Chocolate House. From here, you can go east to the 
Druid's House.

6. Shoppe. From here, you can go inside the shop, north to 
the Dodgy Geezer, east to the Pub, or west to the Forest. 
When you use the map to warp to the village, you start 
here.

7. The Drunken Druid Pub. From here, you can go inside the 
pub which has two rooms, west to the Shoppe or east to the 
Blacksmith.

8. Forest. From here, you can go north to the village, or 
east to the forest.

Forest - Major Locations
------------------------

There are eight locations in the forest that get saved to 
your magical map. These are the Witch's House, the Owl 
Tree, the Troll Bridge, the Center of the Forest, the 
Crossroads, the Sleeping Giant, the Dragon's Cave and the 
Tower of Doom. These locations are all interconnected.

Here's an explanation of how to go from one major location 
to the major locations nearest to it. This list is not 
exhaustive, and it is sorted in alphabetical order.

1. From the Center of the Forest, reach the Owl Tree by 
going west, west, west and west.

2. From the Center of the Forest, reach the Sleeping Giant 
by going northeast, east, east, east, east, east and east.

3. From the Center of the Forest, reach the Troll Bridge by 
going west, west, east, and east.

4. From the Crossroads, reach the Troll Bridge by going 
northwest, west, west and west.

5. From the Dragon's Cave, reach the Tower of Doom by going 
northeast, northeast, northeast, northeast and east. 

6. From the Forest Entrance, reach the Owl Tree by going 
east, north, and east.

7. From the Forest Entrance, reach the Troll Bridge by 
going east, southeast, east, east and east.

8. From the Forest Entrance, reach the Witch's House by 
going east, southeast, east, southwest and west.

9. From the Owl Tree, reach the Center of the Woods by 
going east, east, northeast and east.

10. From the Owl Tree, reach the Troll Bridge by going 
east, east, east and east.

11. From the Sleeping Giant, reach the Dragon Cave by going 
east and east.

12. From the Troll Bridge, reach the Center of the Forest 
by going northwest, west, northeast and east.

13. From the Troll Bridge, reach the Crossroads by going 
east, east, east and east.

14. From the Troll Bridge, reach the Owl Tree by going 
northwest, west, west and west.

15. From the Troll Bridge, reach the Witch's House by going 
west, west, southwest and west.

16. From the Witch's House, reach the Troll Bridge by going 
east, east, east and east.

Forest – Minor Locations
------------------------

There are a number of minor locations, as well. Here is how 
to find a minor location, starting from the warp point that 
is closest to it.

Archeologist Hole: From the Center of the Forest, go west.

Barbarian: Warp to the Owl Tree. Go west and southeast. 
Alternately, from the Forest Entrance, go east twice. 

Dwarf Mines: In the Center of the Forest.

Fishing Golum: From the Crossroads, go northeast and down 
the vines in the lower/left.

Goblin Fortress: From the Center of the Forest, go 
north(west).

Oaf: From the Crossroads, go southwest.

Rapunzel Tower: From the Crossroads, go southeast.

Skull Island: From the Center of the Forest, go northeast, 
east and east. Go inside the Swampling's House and find the 
entrance to the area below. From there, go east to Skull 
Island.

Sousaphone Player: From the Troll Bridge, go left. 
Alternately, from the Owl Tree, go east, east, and east.

Swampling's House: From the Center of the Forest, go 
northeast, east and east.

Tree: From the Dragon's Cave, go northeast, northeast, east 
and east.

Woodcutter: From the Center of the Forest, go east twice.

Wormwood Stump: Warp to the Witch's House and go east 
twice. Alternately, from the forest entrance, go east, 
southeast and east.

003-Items
---------------------------------------------------------

There are a number of items you can find and use in this 
game. Here is a list of the items, including where they are 
found and what they are used for.

Axe Head: Found by giving the milrith ore to the blacksmith 
in the village. Give it to the Woodcutter to get inside the 
Woodcutter's House.

Beans: Found by using the bucket of water on the oaf's 
beans. Use them on the compost pile behind the wizard's 
house to get a watermelon.

Beard: Taken by the sleeping dwarf in the pub, by using the 
scissors on them. Wear it to get inside the dwarf mine.

Beer: Found outside the pub, after using wax on the beer 
barrel in the pub. Give it to the dwarf in the dwarf mine 
to bribe him into letting Simon pass.

Beer Voucher: Found in the pub, after using wax on the beer 
barrel in the pub. Give it to the dwarf in the dwarf mine 
in exchange for a jewel.

Book: Found on the cushion in the Tower of Doom. Look at it 
to learn how to defeat demons.

Book: Found on the bookshelf in the Tower of Doom. Look at 
it to learn how to destroy wands.

Branch: Found in the garden of the Tower of Doom. It stops 
the evil chest in the Tower of Doom.

Brochures: Found by talking to the man at the souvenir shop 
in Rondor. Look at it to find an elastic band.

Broom: Found by winning the magical duel in the witch's 
cottage. Use it to get to Tower of Doom.

Bucket of Water: Found by using the well at the witch's 
cottage. You can use it on the oaf's beans to get beans and 
an empty bucket.

Bucket: Found in the goblin cave. Use it on the Druid's 
head to help him turn into a frog.

Calypso's Note: Simon has this at the start of the game. He 
can read it whenever he wants.

Candles: Found inside the chest in the Tower of Doom. They 
help defeat the demons.

Catapult: Found by using the elastic band on the sapling in 
Rondor. Use it to ring the fire alarm.

Chemicals: Found at the top of the Tower of Doom. They 
clean the shield so it is shiny.

Chest: Found in the basement of the Tower of Doom. Open it 
with the block to get candles.

Clapper: Found near the blacksmith. It is used on the bell 
outside Rapunzel's Tower.

Climbing Pin: Found in the Woodcutter's House. It helps you 
proceed from the Dragon's Cave to the Tower of Doom.

Cold Remedy: Found in the Druid's House. Use it on the 
dragon in the Dragon's Cave to make the creature fall 
asleep.

Elastic Band: Found by looking at the brochures. Use it 
with the sapling at Rondor to get a catapult.

Feather: Found near the Wise Owl. Use it on a sleeping 
dwarf in the dwarf mines to get a key.

Fire Extinguisher: Found in the dragon's cave. Use it on 
the fireplace in the woodcutter's house to reach his 
basement.

Flaming Brand: Found in the goblin's cave. Use it on the 
druid to help him turn into a frog.

Floor Wax: Found by the bridge in Rondor. It is used to 
defeat the boss of the game.

Fossil: Found by giving the rock to the blacksmith. You can 
give it to the archeologist, to convince him to dig in the 
area with mithril.

Frogsbane: Found on top of Skull Island, below the 
Swampling's House. Give it to the druid to get a potion.

Gem: Found by giving a beer voucher to a dwarf in the 
mines. Sell it to the Dodgy Geezer to get some gold coins.

Gold Coins: Found by selling a gem to the Dodgy Geezer in 
the village. Also found by using the rope & magnet on the 
hole above the dragon's cave. Use coins to by a hammer and 
white spirit from the Shoppe. Use coins to pay the wizards 
in the pub. 

Hacksaw: Given to Simon by the Druid, once you hide from 
the goblins in the iron maiden. Use it on the bars to 
escape the goblin area.

Hair: From Simon's dog, found after entering the Tower of 
Doom. It is used on the tap to fill the garden with water.

Hammer: Purchased at the Shoppe, and it comes with a free 
nail. You can use it or the nail on the loose plank under 
the Swampling's House.

Hat: Found inside the chocolate house.

Hook: Found in the dwarf mine. It is used on the boulder 
above the entrance to the Dragon's Cave, so you can access 
the hole in the roof. 

Key: Found by using the feather on the sleeping dwarf in 
the dwarf mine. It opens a door in the mine.

Key: Found in the goblin cave, by using paper on the door 
and the rat bone on the lock, then retrieving the paper. 
Use it to open the door.

Ladder: Found outside the Druid's house. Use it in 
Rapunzel's Tower to reach the basement.

Leaf: Found in the garden of the Tower of Doom. It is used 
as a sail, with the matchstick.

Magic Wand: Found near the mirror in the Tower of Doom. Use 
it to defeat Sordid, then throw it in the lava.

Magnet: Found on the fridge in the wizard's house. Use it 
with the rope to get a rope & magnet.

Mahogany: Found in the basement of woodcutter's house. Use 
it on the woodworm stump to get woodworms.

Map: Simon automatically starts the game with this. Use it 
to warp to different locations.

Matches: Found on top of the fruit machine in the pub. 
Simon uses them to smoke bees out, near the chocolate 
house.

Matchstick: Found by entering the bucket in the garden of 
the Tower of Doom. It is used as a mast for a sailboat, 
along with the leaf.

Metal Detector: Given to Simon by the Woodcutter. You can 
use it in order to find where milrith is buried.

Milrith Ore: You can pick it up, once the archeologist digs 
in the area where milrith is. Give it to the blacksmith to 
get the axe head.

Mints: Found in the goblin area, where you meet the Druid. 
You can use them to melt a snowman.

Mouse: Found by using the pouch and sock on the hole in the 
steps of the Tower of Doom. It is used to banish the 
demons.

Mushroom: Found in the garden of the Tower of Doom. Consume 
it to have Simon return to normal size.

Nail: It comes with the hammer, when you buy it from the 
shop. Use the hammer or the nail on the plank below the 
Swampling's house to fix it.

Oil: In the garden of the Tower of Doom, use the stone on 
the seeds to get oil. You can use it to get the tap in the 
garden to work.

Paper: It is inside the spell book in the goblin cave. Use 
it on the door, as part of a puzzle to get the key to the 
door.

Pebble: Found in the fiery pits of Rondor. It is used with 
the catapult to ring the bell.

Placard: The sign that is discarded by the troll, once it 
is defeated.

Postcard: Simon starts the game with this in his inventory. 
It lets you save, load, continue or quit the game.

Potion: Give frogsbane to the Druid to get the potion. It 
makes Simon shrink, so he can get inside the Tower of Doom.

Pouch: Found on the bed in the Tower of Doom. Use it with 
the sock, so you can capture the mouse in the mouse hole.

Rat Bone: Found in the goblin cave. Use it on the lock on 
the door to push the key out of the lock.

Repulser: Found by kissing Rapunzel in Rapunzel's Tower. It 
is used to get inside the chocolate house.

Ring: Found by giving swamp stew to the Fishing Golum. 
Simon uses it to make himself invisible, after he enters 
the goblin's fotress.

Rock: Found in the Center of the Forest. Read it to learn 
what the password to the dwarf mines is.

Rock: Found northeast of the dragon's cave. The blacksmith 
can crack it open to get a fossil.

Rope: Found by the blacksmith. Use it with the magnet to 
get a rope & magnet.

Rope & Magnet: Found, by combining the rope with the 
magnet. It is used to get money from the dragon's cave.

Sapling: Found in the fiery pits of Rondor. It is used with 
the elastic band to make a catapult.

Scissors: Found in the drawer of the wizard's house. Use it 
on the sleeping dwarf in the bar to get the beard.

Seeds: Found in the garden of the Tower of Doom. Use the 
stone on them to get oil.

Shield: Found in the Tower of Doom. Use the chemicals to 
clean it, then hang it on the hook on top of the tower, so 
you can spy on the demons.

Shopping List: Found in the goblin area. Give it to the 
shopkeeper, and he will get the groceries ready.

Skull: It is in the basement of the Tower of Doom. Use the 
spear on it to retrieve it. Use it to get rid of the 
demons.

Smokebox: Found inside the chocolate house. Use it on the 
beehive to get bees.

Sock: Found in the Tower of Doom. The mouse likes the smell 
of the sock, so you can use it to lure the mouse out of its 
hole.

Sousaphone: Use the watermelon on the man who plays this 
instrument to get it. Then, use the sousaphone on the 
sleeping giant to open a path to the east.

Souvenir Matches: Found at the souvenir shop in Rondor. Use 
it on the cool lava to set it on fire.

Spear: Found in the Tower of Doom. Use it on the skull to 
knock the skull loose.

Specimen Jar: Found in the Druid's house. Use it on the 
stew in the Swampling's house to get stew.

Spell Book: Found inside the boxes in the goblin cave. Open 
it to get a paper.

Staff: Found by defeating the mummy in the basement of 
Rapunzel's Tower. Give it to the wizards in the pub.

Stone: Found in the garden of the Tower of Doom. Use it on 
the seeds to get oil.

Tadpole: Found in the pool of the Tower of Doom. Pick it up 
and threaten to hurt it, in order to get past the frog.

Watermelon: Found by using the beans on the compost pile 
behind the wizard's house. Use it on the sousaphone to get 
the sousaphone.
 
Wedge: Found when you open the mummy's tomb in the basement 
of Rapunzel's Tower.

Whistle: Take the thorn out of the barbarian's foot, and he 
gives it to you. The troll will attempt to steal it, which 
leads to his doom.

White Spirit: You can buy this from the Shoppe. Use it on 
the pink splodge on the tree in order to learn magic words.

Wizkid Wallet: You get this after giving the staff and the 
gold coins to the wizards in the pub. It lets you fight the 
witch.

Woodworm: Found by giving mahogany to the woodworms in the 
stump. You can use them to destroy the floorboards in 
Rapunzel's Tower.

004-Walkthrough
---------------------------------------------------------
 
There are many puzzles in this game, some of which have to 
be done in a certain order. I grouped together various 
related puzzles, but you can solve them in a different 
order, if you so wish.

Village
-------

You might as well begin by collecting all the items in the 
village. Take the magnet from the fridge in the cottage, 
then open the dress drawer and take the scissors.

Leave the wizard cottage and go east to the blacksmith. He 
won't talk to Simon. Take his rope and clapper.

Go east to the Dodgy Geezer. He starts a conversation with 
you, in an attempt to sell you overpriced goods. Ignore 
him, then go west to the Druid's House. Take the ladder 
here, then go inside the house. Take the cold remedy and 
the specimen jar here.

Leave the Druid's House. If you go west, you reach the 
chocolate house. You can't get inside that yet, so go east 
twice. You reach the Shoppe, where you can buy things once 
you have money.

Go east to the Pub. Open the door and go inside. Pick up 
the matches on top of the fruit machine on the left, and 
use the scissors on the sleeping dwarf to get his beard.

Talk to the various characters here, if you want. Whenever 
you ask the bartender for a drink, he spends some time 
looking behind the bar. Go to the room to the right to meet 
the wizards. They say they will help Simon become a wizard, 
if he can retrieve a special staff.

Exit the bar, then go west twice to reach the forest 
entrance.

Forest Exploration
------------------

The first thing I recommend doing in the forest is 
exploring. Use the locations section on the map to help you 
out, and try to find the major locations. There are several 
characters and things to see here, including a barbarian, 
the wise owl, a lazy oaf and more.

Once you've had your fill of exploring, it's time to solve 
some puzzles. Let's start with the puzzles that help you 
explore new areas of the forest.

Go to the barbarian and talk to him. Offer to remove the 
thorn from his foot. He will be happy, and he gives Simon a 
whistle.

Go to the Troll Bridge. The troll is on strike, refusing to 
let the Billy Goats Gruff (or anyone else) past the bridge. 
Talk to the troll, and it is interested in Simon's whistle. 
Give the whistle to the troll. The troll uses the whistle, 
and the barbarian comes to attack the troll.

You can now access the crossroads and some new areas. Near 
the crossroads is an oaf. His magic beans don't work. Go to 
the witch's house and move the crank to get a bucket of 
water. Return to the oaf and have him use the bucket of 
water on the beans. Simon will leave the screen after this. 
Return to the screen and pick up the beans. 

Return to the village. Specifically, go to the wizard's 
house. A compost pile is located behind the house. Use the 
beans on the compost to get a watermelon.

Go to the sousaphone player, near the troll bridge. Simon 
hates his music, so use the watermelon on the sousaphone. 
You receive a sousaphone for your troubles.

Go to the sleeping giant and use the sousaphone to get 
access to the area with the dragon's cave. You can't go too 
far beyond that, because there is a missing peg. That peg 
can be found in the woodcutter's house, once you fix his 
axe during the staff plotline.

Helping Rapunzel
----------------

The plotline with Rapunzel results in Simon getting 
beeswax, for the Dwarf Mines plotline.

Go to Rapunzel's Tower, near the crossroads. Use the 
clapper from the blacksmith on the bell, so you can ring 
the bell. Once you ring the bell, Rapunzel lets down her 
hair. Use the hair to climb up the tower.

Rapunzel is here, and Simon immediately takes a shine to 
her. Could it be that Simon has found love? Talk to her to 
learn that she is cursed. Have Simon break the curse by 
kissing her. Rapunzel then turns into a pig.

Go to the village, and head to the chocolate house. Use 
Rapunzel on the door to have her eat it. Go inside, then 
pick up the smokebox. Also, get the beekeeper hat.

Leave the house, and use the smokebox on the beehive. If 
you haven't picked up the beekeeper hat or the matches from 
the fruit machine in the pub, it won't work. Using the 
smokebox on the beehive results in Simon getting some wax.

Dwarf Mines
-----------

The plotline about the dwarf mines involves the thing 
dwarves love most: beer. Go through this plotline to get a 
gem, which can be sold to the Dodgy Geezer for money.

You'll need a few things before you can solve this 
plotline.

1. You need a feather from the Wise Owl. Talk to him to get 
it to fall on the ground.
2. You need a beard. Use the scissors on the dwarf in the 
pub to get it.
3. You need the rock, found in the Center of the Forest. 
Look at it to learn what the password to the dwarf mines 
is.
4. You need beer and a beer voucher from the pub.

To get the beer and beer voucher, you need the beeswax. You 
can get this from the beehive outside the chocolate house, 
after solving the Rapunzel storyline. Simply use Rapunzel 
on the house's door, retrieve the beekeeping equipment from 
inside the house, and use it on the beehive to get wax. You 
also need the matches from the pub to use the beekeeping 
equipment.

When you have the wax, go to the pub and ask the bartender 
for a drink. While he looks for ingredients, use the wax on 
the beer barrel to plug it up. This tricks him into 
thinking the barrel is empty, because whenever he presses 
the spigot, no beer comes out.

The bartender puts the barrel of beer outside, and he gives 
Simon a brochure containing a free beer voucher. Leave the 
pub, then take the barrel of beer.

Once you have all four of the items you need, go to the 
Center of the Forest. Wear the beard, then go into the 
entrance to the dwarf mine. If you've looked at the stone 
which was found in this area, you'll know the correct 
password is "Beer".

Once you give the password, you make it inside. The area to 
the west is blocked by a guard. Use the barrel of beer on 
the guard, and he goes to the southeast. Follow him there.

This is a drinking room. Use the feather on the sleeping 
dwarf to get the key. Then, go up the stairs and then go 
down the stairs to the west. Take the hook here, then use 
the key on the gold door. Go inside.

This room has many gems, and an angry guard. Talk to him, 
and offer to give him something useful. If he kicks you 
out, simply re-enter the room and try again. Once he's 
willing to listen to you, give him the beer voucher.

He is happy to get a free beer, and he asks what he can 
give you in return. Ask for a gem. You can use this gem on 
the Dodgy Geezer in the village to get many gold coins.

Goblin Plotline
---------------

From the Center of the Forest, go to the northwest exit. 
This leads to the Goblin Fortress. There is a grocery list 
on the ground here. Pick it up, then go to the Shoppe at 
the village. The shopkeepers agree to set out the groceries 
sometime in the future.

The groceries do not appear until Simon gets the ring. 
Getting the ring isn't too difficult, though.

Go to the Swampling's House and talk to the Swampling. 
Agree to eat its stew. Use the specimen jar (from the 
Druid's House in the village) on the stew to get a jar of 
stew.

Either use the map or leave the house when the Swampling 
isn't paying attention. Go to the crossroads, then go 
north. Climb down the vines to find Golum, who is a big fan 
of Tolkien novels. He is fishing for food. Give him the jar 
of stew, and he lets Simon fish.

Simon fishes for a while, and he finds the famous ring that 
Tolkien wrote so much about. Return to the village. The box 
of groceries has appeared outside the Shoppe now. Open the 
box to get taken to the goblin area.

Simon finds himself inside a locked cave. How can he 
escape?

Open the box to stand up. Pick up the rat bone. Look at the 
boxes to get the spell book, then open the spell book to 
get a piece of paper.

Time for a puzzle which is slightly complicated. The 
goblins left the key inside the lock on the door. Use the 
paper on the door, to push the paper through the crack at 
the bottom of the floor. Then, use the rat bone on the 
lock. This causes the key to fall out of the lock and onto 
the paper on the floor. Pick up the paper to retrieve the 
key, then use the key to open the door.

Pick up the bucket here and go downstairs to meet the 
Druid. He lives in a house in the village, but he's been 
captured by the goblins. Talk to him, and he will believe 
that Simon is evil.

Remove the ring, then talk to the Druid again. He will 
eventually be convinced that Simon is there to help. He 
says that if Simon can make a full moon, he (the Druid) 
will turn into a frog and escape.

Take the firebrand in this room, as well as the mints. Put 
the bucket on the Druid's head, then use the flaming brand 
on the Druid. Simon puts the brand near the circular hole 
in the bucket, so when the Druid looks through the hole, it 
looks sort of like a full moon.

The Druid turns into a frog and hops off.

Simon has to hide until the frog returns, so open the iron 
maiden. This helps him avoid the goblins. The frog returns 
with a hacksaw. Pick up the hacksaw, then use it on the 
bars to break them. Go east through the bars, then east 
again to reach the Center of the Forest.

Staff Plotline
--------------

The wizards at the pub asked Simon to get a wizard's staff. 
Finding it is a bit of a challenge.

Go to the woodcutter's house. Talk to him to learn that he 
is upset. He can't cut the trees here, unless he has an axe 
head made out of milrith. Offer to find the milrith for 
him, and he gives you a metal detector.

Go to the area with the sleeping giant. The snowy hills are 
where you'll find milrith. Use the metal detector on the 
various snowy locations here until you find the milrith; 
it's on the same screen as a wizard statue.

Simon finds the milrith, all right, but he can't dig it up 
by himself. He leaves the metal detector there.

Go to the Dragon's Cave. If you haven't been there yet, you 
need to use the sousaphone on the sleeping giant to get 
access to this area. To get the sousaphone, use the crank 
at the Witch's House to get a bucket of water. Give it to 
the Oaf, and you can get a bean. Use it on the compost pile 
at the wizard's house for a watermelon, and use the 
watermelon on the sousaphone.

When you first go inside the dragon's cave, the dragon 
frightens Simon. Use the cold remedy from the Druid's house 
on the dragon to make it fall asleep. You can then take the 
fire extinguisher from the cave.

Leave the dragon's cave, then go northeast. Pick up the 
rock here. Look at it to see it has a fossil.

Go to the village and give the rock to the blacksmith to 
get the fossil. Then, go to the Archeologist, who is one 
screen west of the Center of the Forest.

Talk to the archeologist, if you haven't already. Give him 
the fossil, then lie to him and say you found it in the 
snowy area, near the metal detector. The archeologist 
leaves to dig in that place.

Return to the snowy area. Milrith is scattered all around 
the area where the archeologist is digging. Pick it up, 
then return to the village. Give the milrith ore to the 
blacksmith to get an axe head made of milrith.

Return to the woodcutter and give him the axe head. He 
leaves to cut down trees. You can now enter his house.

Inside the woodcutter's house, pick up the climbing pin. 
Use the fire extinguisher on the fireplace, then move the 
hook to enter the basement. On a shelf on the left, you can 
pick up mahogany.

Go to the woodworm stump. The woodworms here want to eat 
some mahogany. Give it to the woodworms, and you get some 
mahogany filled with woodworms.

Go to Rapunzel's tower. If you haven't already finished the 
Rapunzel storyline, do it now. It's not too difficult; 
simply use the clapper from the blacksmith on the bell 
here, then move the bell. Use the hair to climb up the 
tower, then kiss Rapunzel.

Use the hair to climb up Rapunzel's Tower once she is no 
longer there, and use the woodworms on the floorboards 
here. They eat a hole through the floor, and Simon falls to 
the ground level.

You can open the door here, to get outside. See the hole on 
the ground? Use the ladder (from outside the Druid's House) 
on the hole. Climb down to reach a mummy's tomb.

Open the tomb, and the mummy comes out. Oh no! Simon runs 
away.

Return to the mummy's tomb. Open it, and this time, pick up 
the loose bandage near the mummy's back. This defeats the 
mummy and gets the staff. That's the staff the wizards 
wanted! Return to the pub and give it to them.

Fighting the Witch
------------------

The Witch in the Witch's House wants to fight a magical 
duel against Simon, but he is woefully unprepared. He needs 
to know magic words, and he needs to be an official wizard.

To become a wizard, Simon must get the staff and give it to 
the wizards in the right room at the pub. They have a 
thirty coin membership fee.

Simon can get some coins, by selling the gem from the Dwarf 
Mine to the Dodgy Geezer. This isn't enough money, however.

Go to the Dragon's Cave. Use the hook (from the Dwarf Mine) 
on the boulder, above the entrance to the cave. You can now 
walk to the boulder, so Simon is on the top of the cave.

There's a hole here. If you haven't already, use the magnet 
(from the fridge in the wizard's house) with the rope (from 
the blacksmith's area) to get a magnet & rope. Use the 
magnet & rope on the hole to get some gold coins. Do this 
three times.

Simon now has enough gold coins. Give them to the wizards, 
and Simon becomes a sorcerer. It's a simple as that.

Simon still needs to learn some magic words, however. Go to 
the Tree, four screens east of the Dragon's Cave. It claims 
to know magic words, and it promises to teach you the words 
if you help it.

Go to the Shoppe and pick up the White Spirit to purchase 
it. Return to the tree, then use the White Spirit on the 
pink paint on the tree. The tree then teaches Simon the 
four magic words.

Go to the Witch's Cottage, once you know the magic words 
and once the wizards have made Simon a wizard. Try picking 
up her broom, and she agrees to have a magical duel with 
Simon.

The duel is simple. Simon can say a magic word to turn him 
into an animal.

Alakazam turns him into a snake.
Hocus Pocus turns him into a cat.
Sausages turns him into a dog.
Abracadabra turns him into a mouse. 

The Witch also turns into an animal. Whoever picks a better 
animal than the other person gets a point. Dog beats snake, 
snake beats cat, and cat beats dog. If Simon and the Witch 
pick the same animal, that round is a draw.

The competition goes on for five rounds. Whoever has the 
most points at that time wins. If the score is tied, the 
game keeps going until the tie is broken.

The animal the witch chooses is randomly determined. You'll 
just have to be lucky in picking animals that defeats the 
Witch's animals. If you lose, simple re-enter the cottage 
and try again.

Don't use the mouse in the duel, because the mouse always 
loses.

Once you win the duel, the Witch gives you the broom. She 
then turns into a dragon, promising to kill you. Say 
"Abracadabra!" to turn into a mouse, then exit through the 
mouse hole in the back of the house.

Entering the Tower of Doom
--------------------------

Simon needs a few things before he can reach the Tower of 
Doom.

1. The climbing peg, from inside the woodcutter's house.
2. The mints, from the goblin area where he met the Druid.
3. The Witch's broomstick.

By this point, you need to have finished all the other 
plotlines. Entering the Tower of Doom is the last plotline 
of the game.

Go to the Dragon's Cave, and go northeast twice. Use the 
climbing peg on the wall, where the missing climbing peg 
should go. This allows you to keep climbing. Simon meets an 
angry snowman. Consume the mints to kill the snowman, and 
continue going towards the Tower of Doom.

The bridge to the tower collapses. Use the broomstick to 
get across the gap. Simon finds himself at the entrance to 
the tower...which is locked.

Simon needs to use a magic potion to get through the door.

Go to the Druid's House and ask him for a potion. He turns 
into a frog before he can help you.

Go to the Shoppe and purchase a hammer. Now, go to the 
Swampling's House. If you haven't already, consume all the 
soup so the Swampling is forced to leave.

Move the chest here to reveal a trapdoor. Open the door 
then climb down the ladder to reach a wooden walkway. When 
you try to walk right, Simon finds a loose board. Use 
either the hammer or the nail on the board to fix it.

Go east to find Skull Island. Take the frogsbane from the 
top of the island. Return to the Druid's House and give the 
frogsbane to the Druid. He will give you the potion.

Honey, I Shrunk the Sorcerer
----------------------------

Go to the Tower of Doom. Use the broomstick to cross the 
gap, if needed, then consume the potion. Simon shrinks to a 
small size, which causes him to lose all his items, except 
the postcard.

Simon enters the tower. For some reason, his dog is there. 
Chippy the Dog takes Simon outside to the garden, and Simon 
manages to get a hair from Chippy.

The garden here has some nice mushrooms which will make 
Simon grow to normal size. The bad news is that they're on 
the other side of a puddle. With Simon at his current size, 
the puddle is more like a lake.

Pick up the leaf and the stone here. Look at the bucket, 
and Simon finds a matchstick. Go west a screen.

There's a lily leaf on the pond here. Attempt to pick it 
up, and it moves closer to the shore. Time for Simon to 
create a makeshift sailboat! Use the matchstick on the lily 
leaf, then use the leaf on the matchstick. The matchstick 
serves as a mast, and the leaf serves as a sail. You can 
now go west.

Uh oh...going west doesn't work, because the pond is too 
small. You'll have to turn on the tap to get more water.

Go to the screen with the tap. Get the seeds from the top-
left part of this screen. Use the stone on the seeds to get 
oil. Use the oil on the tap to loosen up the rust, then use 
the dog hair on the tap to turn it on.

Now there's enough water to go west. Do so. A frog blocks 
the path to the left, so pick up the tadpole that is in the 
water. Talk to the frog and threaten to hurt the tadpole if 
it doesn't move. The frog leaves.

Pick up the mushroom that you can now reach. Eat the 
mushroom, and Simon returns to normal size.

The Tower of Doom
-----------------

The Tower of Doom belongs to the evil Sordid. Simon's goal 
is to use the teleporter on top of the tower to reach the 
area where Sordid is.

Pick up a tree branch here, then open the door to the 
tower. Go inside, and Simon will be scared by an evil 
treasure chest. Go back inside the tower, then use the 
branch on the treasure chest to lock its jaws into place, 
making it harmless.

There are four levels to the Tower of Doom. Here on the 
main floor, all you can do is get the shield and the spear.

Go down to the basement. Here, you can use the spear on the 
skull in the upper/left. This knocks over the skull, so you 
can pick it up.

There is a treasure chest across the bridge. This chest 
contains candles. There is also a lever which controls a 
smashing block above the lever. Try moving the lever a few 
times to see how it works.

Pick up the treasure chest, then move the lever so the 
smashing block is up. Now, use the chest on the block which 
is below the smashing block and above the lever. Move the 
lever again so the smashing block comes down and smashes 
the chest open. Move the lever another time to move the 
smashing block up, so you can pick up the candles.

The skull and the candles are all you can get in the 
basement. Go up two floors to reach some kind of bedroom. 
Pick up the magic wand which is in front of the mirror, 
pick up the sock on the floor and the pouch on the bed.

There's a mouse hole here, inside the steps. If you use the 
sock on the hole, the mouse comes out. Use the sock on the 
pouch, to put the sock inside the pouch. Then, use the 
pouch on the hole. The mouse goes out to find the sock, and 
it gets captured in the pouch.

The mirror here is a magical mirror, which can show you 
anywhere in the world, provided a shiny, reflective surface 
is nearby. Simon doesn't want to use the mirror yet.

Go upstairs, to the top floor. Here, there are two demons. 
Talk to them to learn that they are being forced to work 
for Sordid, when all they want to do is return to Hell. 
They'll agree to teach Simon how to work the teleporter 
here, if he can send them to Hell.

Get the book here. Look at it to learn how to get rid of 
demons. He needs a magic square, candles from the basement, 
a skull from the basement, the mouse from the bedroom, and 
he needs to know the demons' true names.

If you ask the demons for their true names, they refuse to 
give Simon that information.

Pick up the chemicals here. Use the chemicals on the shield 
to make it shiny, then use the shield on the hook. Go down 
one floor, to the bedroom. Talk to the mirror and ask it to 
show you the demons. Because the demons are alone, and they 
don't think anyone is watching them, they use their true 
names.

Simon should have everything he needs now. Go back to the 
top floor and tell the demons that you're going to draw a 
magic square. One of the demons lends you chalk, so you can 
do this. Simon sends the demons back to Hell, and he learns 
how to use the teleporter.

Using the teleporter is simple. Just walk to it, and say 
your destination. You only have one choice: the fiery pits 
of Rondor.

The Fiery Pits of Rondor
------------------------

We're here in Rondor. The evil Sordid is here, too. Simon 
needs to defeat Sordid, before Sordid turns more people 
into stone. For good measure, Simon should also throw 
Sordid's wand into the fiery pits, in order to prevent 
Sordid from using magic in the future.

It turns out that Rondor is a tourist attraction. Talk to 
the attendant to get some brochures. Sadly, the attendant 
won't let you into the fiery pits unless you pay a fee.

Time to figure out a way to get rid of the attendant. 
Setting off the fire alarm should do the trick, but it's 
too far for Simon to reach. He needs a slingshot.

Look at the brochure to get an elastic band. Pick up the 
sapling here, and pick up the pebble. Use the band on the 
sapling to get the catapult. Use the catapult on the bell, 
and the attendant runs away.

Pick up the matches on the counter of the souvenir stand, 
then go east. Cross the bridge and pick up the floor wax. 
Go east again, and Simon meets the evil Sordid. Sordid is 
upset, because the fire alarm set off the water sprinklers 
on the ceiling, putting out the fire in the fiery pits.

Quickly, use the magic wand on Sordid to turn him to stone. 
Ha! Sordid's own wand was used to defeat him! We still need 
to destroy the wand, however. Set the fiery pits on fire 
again, by using the matches on the pits. The lava starts 
flowing, and you should use the wand on the lava to destroy 
the wand.

Simon realizes, a bit too late, that destroying Sordid's 
wand will cause Sordid to come back to life. Once Sordid is 
alive again, he vows to kill Simon. A phone call interrupts 
the confrontation. The person on the phone is the wizard 
Calypso, who asks Simon to stall Sordid for a bit.

Tell Sordid whatever you want in the ensuing conversation. 
Either way, Sordid throws Simon out of the room and into a 
pit of razor-sharp spikes. Simon manages to survive, 
fortunately.

Time for Simon to defeat Sordid for good. Go east, and use 
floor wax on Sordid. Sordid doesn't look where he's going, 
so he slips and falls on the floor wax. Sordid lands right 
in the lava, and he explodes. That's the end of the game.
