Maniac Manion - Lucasfilm/US Gold

Solved by Dave Barker

STORYLINE. 

You play the part of Dave, a student at State University. You 
have just heard that your girlfriend, Sandy, has been kidnapped 
by Dr. Fred and is being held in his home, the affectionately 
named "MANIAC MANSION". After placing a message on the school 
noticeboard appealing for help in the rescue of Sandy you set 
off for the meeting place, the driveway to "MANIAC MANSION".
In the game you control three characters, one of which is Dave 
by default. You therefore need to pick two more characters from 
the other six shown on the menu screen. This walkthrough uses 
Syd and Michael as the other members of the party.
 
NOTE:- at certain preset times events will occur inside "MANIAC 
MANSION" which are beyond your control. In particular the 
occupants will wander about so don't wait around in open areas. 
See game notes listed at end of walkthrough.
WALKTHROUGH.
 
DAVE:- move to front door, pick up mat, pick up key, unlock 
front door with key, enter, walk to the far right of entrance 
hall, open door, enter sitting room, walk to the far right, open 
door, enter library, dark!, use the "what is " command to find 
the light and turn it on, walk to the far right, open last panel 
on bookcase, get cassette, return to main hall, go to right side 
of staircase, push gargoyle - door to basement opens.
 
MICHAEL:- walk to far right of outside of house, wait by 
mailbox.
 
SYD:- enter front door, go down into basement, dark! use "what 
is" command to find light switch, turn on light, go to far left, 
get silver key, open fuse box, return to main hall, go to 
kitchen door.

DAVE:- ascend stairs, open door to left, enter art room, get 
bowl of wax fruit and paint remover.
SYD:- SEE NOTE 1, open kitchen door, enter door, get flashlight, 
open fridge, get can of pepsi, open door on right, enter into 
dining room, walk to the far right, open door, enter store room, 
get fruit drinks, return to main hall, ascend stairs, join Dave 
in art room, give Dave fruit drinks.
 
DAVE:- go to security door, open door, SEE NOTE 2, enter door, 
walk to the far right, go up stairs, walk left until confronted 
by hungry green tentacle, give bowl of fruit to tentacle, give 
fruit drinks to tentacle - you can now pass, walk left and 
ascend stairs, open first door and enter, walk to the left and 
ascend ladder, get record from back shelf, walk to the far right, 
get yellow key, return to the top floor landing, open fourth door 
and enter, use the hunk-O-matic machine - twice, walk to right, 
open bathroom door and enter, get sponge, now return to first 
floor landing outside security door, go right, open and enter 
door to music room, go to the music-centre, use record player on 
record, use cassette player on cassette, turn on cassette 
player, turn on record player, wait until noise stops, turn off 
cassette player, turn off record player, get cassette, now go to 
the sitting room on ground floor, open cabinet that has the radio 
on it, use cassette player on cassette, turn on cassette player, 
wait until chandelier shatters, turn off machine, get old rusty 
key.
 
Wait, SEE NOTE 3  

MICHAEL:- pick up package as per NOTE 3, go to front door.
 
DAVE:- go to front door, open front door, go upstairs to art 
room.
 
MICHAEL:- enter front door, go upstairs to security door and 
open it, go to the top landing, open third door, enter Weird ED's 
room, give package to Weird ED - he then asks you to find his 
plans, return to the art room.
 
DAVE:- give yellow key to SYD, go downstairs and out of front 
door, examine bush on right side of steps, get undeveloped film, 
examine bush on left side of steps, using your improved strength 
open the grating, enter grating, walk to the right until you are 
under the grating.
 
SYD:- go downstairs and go to the store room beyond the kitchen
and dining room, get glass jar, get bottle of developer from
top of shelves - as you do so it slips from your grasp and
smashes onto the grating.
 
DAVE:- use sponge to soak up developer, walk right until you 
come to the water valve.
 
SYD:- unlock outer door with silver key, enter door, fill jar 
with pool water, go to side of pool by ladder.
 
DAVE:- turn on water valve, SEE NOTE 4.

SYD:- down into empty pool, get radio, get glowing key, up out 
of pool.

DAVE:- turn off water valve. go to pool and meet SYD, open gate, 
enter gate, open garage, go to art room, give undeveloped film
to MICHAEL, give sponge of developer to MICHAEL.
 
SYD:- enter gate, open car boot with yellow key, get tool box, 
go to art room.
 
MICHAEL:- go to second floor landing, open door, enter door - 
dark!, close door, use the "what is" command to find the red 
light, turn on red light, use sponge of developer on tray, use 
undeveloped film on tray, take prints to Weird ED's room, give 
prints to Weird ED - he says "great, you have developed the 
prints, now we can overthrow the meteor. Meet me in the lab in
10 minutes", wait here.
 
SYD:- give DAVE the following, can of pepsi, flashlight, radio, 
jar of water, and the tools.
 
DAVE:- give SYD the rusty key, go to top landing, head to 
far right, open and enter door, go to far right wall, use
paint remover on paint blotch, you find a secret door, open
door.
 
SYD:- join MICHAEL in Weird ED's room, open piggy bank - it 
breaks revealing 3 dimes, get hamster - Weird ED won't let you 
do this and you are taken down to the dungeon.
 
MICHAEL:- get the 3 dimes, get hamster, get purple keycard, wait 
until Weird ED returns, give hamster to Weird ED, now exit room 
go to far right and meet up with DAVE, give the 3 dimes to DAVE, 
exit room and wait outside closed second door.
 
SYD:- unlock door with old rusty key, meet MICHAEL outside 
second door on top landing, open and enter Nurse EDNA's room, 
she is none too happy with your intrusion and you are taken
down to the dungeon again!

MICHAEL:- enter EDNA's room, climb up ladder - dark!, use the 
"what is" command to find light switch, turn on light switch, 
walk to painting, open painting to find wallsafe.
DAVE:- enter and you'll ascend the ladder, open radio to reveal
batteries, use batteries in flashlight.
 
SYD:- unlock door with rusty key, enter door - dark!, find and 
walk to open fuse box, turn off circuit breakers - whole house 
plunged in darkness, SEE NOTE 5.
 
DAVE:- turn on flashlight, use tools to fix broken wires, turn 
off flashlight.
 
SYD:- turn on circuit breakers, the chances are that the purple 
tentacle will throw you into the dungeon.
 
DAVE:- descend ladder, go to hungry plant, use jar of water on 
plant - it grows and reaches the hole in the ceiling, give can 
of pepsi to plant, go up plant into the observatory, go to the  
controls on the left, use dime on slot, push right hand button, 
use dime on slot, push right hand button - the telescope is now 
in the correct position, use telescope - you see into Nurse 
EDNA's bedroom - and the combination to the safe.
MICHAEL:- open safe, get sealed envelope, open envelope - find 
quarter, down ladder - Nurse EDNA throws you into the dungeon.
 
SYD:- open door with rusty key.
 
MICHAEL:- enter door, go through basement, go upstairs into main 
hall, go upstairs to first floor landing, enter security door, 
open first door to right, enter medical room.
 
DAVE:- go downstairs to medical room.

MICHAEL:- give quarter to DAVE, give purple keycard to DAVE.
 
DAVE:- wait until you have seen Dr. FRED play an arcade game, 
leave room, open door to right, enter games room, walk to 
machine entitled "Meteor Mess", use quarter on coin slot - make 
note of highest score number, now go upstairs to Nurse EDNA's 
room - get captured and thrown into the dungeon.

SYD:- give glowing key to DAVE, give yellow key to DAVE.
DAVE:- walk to far left to padlocked door, use glowing key on 
top padlock, use glowing key on bottom padlock, open outer door 
- now see inner door, open door, enter number from arcade game 
high score, enter door into secret laboratory, walk to the right 
confronted by purple tentacle, Weird ED arrives and takes care 
of the purple tentacle, walk to the door on left, open and enter 
door, walk left - Dr. FRED activates the self-destruct - you 
have 2 minutes to complete the game, walk left to locker, open 
locker, use radiation suit, walk right to the door, use purple 
keycard in slot, enter door, walk to the power lever, turn off 
power lever - releases Dr. FRED from the control of the meteor 
but the self-destruct cannot be aborted, get the meteor, walk 
right to door, open door, enter door into garage, use meteor in 
boot of car, close car boot, use yellow key on left hand rocket 
engine.....................THE END.
 
NOTE 1:- at the start of the game Nurse EDNA is in the kitchen 
raiding the fridge. Save the game before SYD enters the kitchen. 
If EDNA is still there reset the machine, load up your save 
position, and put a blank disk in the drive you are using. When 
the program is ready to remove EDNA from the kitchen it tries to 
access disc two, can't find it and asks you to insert it. You 
now know EDNA has gone back to her room. SYD can now enter the 
kitchen safely, but beware Weird ED will soon get hungry and 
embark on a trip down from his room to the fridge.
 
NOTE 2:- save the game each time you wish to open the security 
door. Unfortunately because of the way in which the printing of 
the security booklet has been carried out it is possible to 
mismatch the required symbols.
 
NOTE 3:- at a preset time during the game the doorbell will 
ring, Weird ED is expecting a package. Switch to MICHAEL who is 
waiting by the mailbox, pick up the package and walk as far left 
as possible. Weird ED will come to the front door, he will 
assume someone rang the bell in order to play a trick and will 
go back inside shutting the door behind him.
 
NOTE 4:- there is an atomic reactor at the bottom of the 
swimming pool, the water keeps it from over heating and 
exploding. To get the radio and the glowing key you must first 
empty the pool, and then afterwards refill it. A single 
character can not complete the task alone in the time before the 
reactor overheats. One character must go under the house to the 
water valve and another to the pool side.
 
NOTE 5:- a particular arcade game in the games room will give 
you vital information, but unfortunately the power line has 
broken in the attic. This is another two character job, one must 
stand by the circuit breakers in the basement whilst the other 
must take the tools to the attic. Only when the electric power 
to the whole house has been turned off can the broken wires be 
repaired.
